```
HISTORY OF MODERN ART
PAINTING SCULPTURE ARCHITECTURE PHOTOGRAPHY
SEVENTH EDITION

H.H.Arnason,Elizabeth_C.Mansfield
MolyChin 编译
Modern Art-006
```


France
The greatest of the satirical artists to emerge in this new environment was Honoré Daumier (1808–79), who was best known for some 4,000 lithographic drawings that he contributed to French journals such as La Caricature and Le Charivari, but was also an important sculptor and painter.
His small caricatural busts were created between 1830 and 1832 to lampoon the eminent politicians of Louis-Philippe’s regime. Daumier’s studies of the theater, of the art world,and of politics and the law courts range from simple commentary to perceptive observation to bitter satire. His political caricatures were at times so biting in their attacks on the establishment that they were censored. The artist was imprisoned for six months for a caricature he did of the king.
The profundity of Daumier’s horror at injustice and brutality is perhaps best illustrated in the famous lithograph Rue Transnonain (fig. 2.13), which shows the dead bodies of a family of innocent workers murdered by the civil guard during the republican revolt of 1834. With journalistic bluntness, the title refers to the street where the killings took place. In its powerful exploitation of a black-and-white medium, as well as the graphic description of its gruesome subject, this is a work comparable to Goya’s The Disasters of War (see fig. 1.7).
Like Daumier, Gustave Courbet (1819–77) inherited certain traits from his Romantic predecessors. Throughout his life, he produced both erotic subjects that border on academicism and Romantic self-portraits. But, most important, he created unsentimental records of contemporary life that secure his place as the leading exponent of modern Realism in painting. These works possess a compelling physicality and an authenticity of vision that the artist derived from the observed world. Most notably, Courbet insisted upon the very material with which a painting is constructed: oil paint. He understood that a painting is in itself a reality—a two-dimensional world of stretched canvas defined by the nature and textural consistency of paint—and that the artist’s function is to define this world.




A Burial at Ornans (fig. 2.14) is significant in the history of modern painting for its denial of illusionistic depth, its apparent lack of a formal composition, and an approach to subject matter so radical that it was seen as an insult to everything for which the venerable French Academy stood. In his assertion of paint texture, the artist drew on and amplified the intervening experiments of the Romantics, although with a different end in view. Whereas the Romantics used broken paint surfaces to emphasize the intangible elements of the spirit or sublime natural phenomena (see fig. 1.11),Courbet employed them as a means to make the ordinary world more tangible. The Burial documents a commonplace event in Courbet’s small provincial hometown in eastern France, but its ambitious size conforms to the dimensions of history painting, a category reserved for the noblest events from the past. Courbet’s casual, frieze-like arrangement of village inhabitants, made up mostly of his friends and relatives, is an accurate depiction of local funerary customs (men and women are segregated, for example), but it carries no particular narrative message. It was not only this lack of compositional hierarchy and pictorial rhetoric that outraged French critics. Courbet’s representation of ordinary residents of the countryside did not coincide with established Parisian norms for the depiction of rural folk.
These are not the ennobled peasants of Millet (see fig. 1.13) or the pretty, happy maids of traditional academic painting.
Rather, they are highly individualized, mostly unattractive, and aggressively real.
Combined with his unorthodox approach to formal matters, Courbet’s Realism in his unpolished treatment of working-class subjects was associated with left-wing dissidence. Realism, and Courbet’s sharpened political sensibilities, came to the fore during these decades of political turmoil, when republicans, Bonapartists, royalists, and socialists struggled to realign France’s government. Courbet pursued his political sympathies on his canvases as he did in life, causing as much uproar with his Realist painting as with his activism. His contempt for the conservatism of official arts institutions spurred him in 1855 to mount a grand exhibition of his works—some of which had been rejected by the Salon jury—in a temporary Pavilion of Realism hastily erected near that year’s Universal Exposition in Paris. This gesture encouraged later avant-garde artists, like the Impressionists, to establish similarly independent exhibitions. By the end of the century, the Salon would be displaced entirely as a venue for groundbreaking new art.
For the ardent socialist Courbet, peasant laborers and the rural landscape were the true sources of French identity and, hence, political authority. In a group of landscapes of the 1850s and 60s, The Source of the Loue among them (fig. 2.15), Courbet had experimented with a form of extreme close-up of rocks abruptly cut off at the edges of the painting. A view from the artist’s native province of Franche-Comté, The Source may owe something to the emerging art of photography, both in its fragmentary impression and in its subdued, almost monochromatic color. Courbet’s landscape, however, combined a sense of observed reality with an even greater sense of the elements and materials with which the artist was working: the rectangle of the picture plane and the emphatic texture of the oil paint, which asserted its own nature at the same time that it was simulating the rough-hewn, sculptural appearance of exposed rocks.
Like Courbet, the Realist painter Rosa Bonheur (1822–99) largely addressed rural themes. Endowing her subjects with a grandeur akin to that of Millet’s peasants, she nevertheless departs from her Barbizon contemporaries in her depiction of landscapes of crystalline clarity and rich color.
Thanks to the progressive views of her parents, Bonheur was allowed to study painting and even permitted to visit farms and slaughterhouses disguised as a boy so she could sketch and acquire some knowledge of anatomy. The accuracy and sympathy of her paintings of animals, in particular, earned her fame as well as a fortune. Plowing in the Nivernais (fig.2.16) exemplifies her approach to Realism in its respect for agricultural labor, its careful observation of livestock, and its glowing precision.
